## Project Name: The Recital
 
## Project Description: what is the project, what is the overall concept and theme, and what kind of experience you were striving to create.
 
The project is a website that follows the conversation between two friends, Alpha and Shamma, as they address the myths and facts surrounding anxiety as experienced by Alpha. The concept and theme of the project is to create a children's video book that creates awareness about mental illness in a way that was easily digestible. This "video book" comes as a slightly-witty extension of the concept of an audio book. We defined a video book to be a variation of a normal physical book where instead of the pages being filled with words, they were filled with audio and video. We were striving to create the experience of flipping through a book of this kind as one would go about flipping through a normal physical book as much as the virtual space would allow while having the user fully emersed in the experience and subconciously learning the mood and tone that conversations surrounding mental health are meant to be mimic. To accomplish this, the basic layout of the project was to have a front cover(like most books do) and a series of pages that the user could move between by means of smooth transition mimicking the feel of turning the page of the book. Furthermore, it would include consistent background music that created a feel of tranquility and safety as well as strategically layered audios that would not interrupt this feel.
 
## Process: How did you go about implementing the concept.
 
We implemented our project by dividing every book page into divs and assigning each div specific audio and video that would play once a button was clicked. While Shamma focused on the animations and I focused on the coding part, we collaboratively worked on producing and editing the sounds. We recorded a majority of our audio and edited it using, mostly ,audacity to normalize it and create smoother transitions between narrative pieces and the background audio once the piece ended. Furthermore, we decided to play around with the space that the characters of our book occupied. We decided that the entire piece was happening in a hall with the exception of a few flashbacks that Alpha has. To fully utilize the space we positioned the narration of each character so it would coincide with the side of the room that the character appears to be standing in. Additionally, we used the reverb effect on all crowd sounds to mimic the sound of a crowd in a hall and to create a difference in proximity to the narrator between the main characters and the crowd.
 
The scroll feature of the website was made to be intentionally smooth not only to compliment the tranquil, soft mood that the background music set, but to also encourage gentleness in spaces that have to do with conversations surrounding mental health, a rhetoric that we hoped would be carried on by the user even outside the virtual space.

The cover art was strategically made to seem laid-back and crude to foster the feel of it being a children's book while still being inviting to adults by means of having a semi-serious font with a quote about anxiety. Also, the starry background of the front page was selected as a way of emphasizing consistency throughout the piece. On close inspection, there is star iconography and pictures throughout the entire piece that we believed would foster visual consistency.
 
##  Reflection/Evaluation: This should bookend the initial concept and talk about whether your expectations and goals were met in the process of building the final working version
 
The expectations we had for the project were met entirely with the exception of having one book page fill up the entire browser window even on resizing. The challenge to make this happen is one that I am still working on and having a lot of fun doing.

